README.md, before:

# Juliagebra

Geogebra like 3D interactive plotting libary written in Julia and OpenGL.

## Used Packages

Every package used by Juliagebra can be found in the [Project.toml](Project.toml) file.

For some examples **DifferentialEquations** package is needed, which may downgrade your **DataStructures** package.

## Examples

Scripts which showcase the use of the library can be found inside [examples/](examples/).

Camera movement is just like in Blender:
- Look around by holding down the scroll wheel, and moving the mouse.
- Pan the camera by doing the same, but holding down the shift key.
- Scroll to zoom in-and-out.

To run the examples without installing the package globally:
```
julia --project=. examples/example.jl
```

But if you want to install the module globally, while cd-d in the root of this project, run:
```
julia
]
develop .
```

Now the package is available for use in your global Julia module scope.

## Creating dependents

For how a Non-Rendered/Rendered Dependent can be created, a good place to start is [intersections.jl](src/Dependents/intersections.jl) and [point.jl](src/Dependents/point.jl).

Highly suggested steps for creating a Dependent:
1. Create a file for it in the [src/Dependents/](src/Dependents/) folder.
2. Include the created file in [Juliagebra.jl](src/Juliagebra.jl) below the **Dependents** section.
3. Additional helper files should go in the [src/Helpers/](src/Helpers/) folder.
4. Helper files can be included in [Juliagebra.jl](src/Juliagebra.jl) below the **Helpers** section, or dierctly above the dependent's include, if nothing else uses it.
5. Create a **Plan**.
6. Create a **Dependent**.
7. If needed create a **Renderer**.
8. Once done, create a User accessible (exported) constructor function in [constructors.jl](src/constructors.jl).
9. Create usage examples in [examples/](examples/).

For adding or removing packages Juliagebra depends on, run theese commands while you're cd-d into the root of this project:

Add Dependent Packages:
```
julia
]
activate .
add PackageName
```

Remove Dependent Packages:
```
julia
]
activate .
rm PackageName
```

But try to keep the versions of the packages as free as possible in the [Project.toml](Project.toml) file.

## Tests

Write tests in a seperate file in the [test/](test/) folder, and include them in [runtests.jl](test/runtests.jl).

To run the tests, while you're cd-d in the root of this project, run theese commands:
```
julia
]
activate .
test
```

## (OutDated) Diagrams

[Drawio](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fkfQfxXt0IOKQ_Q8ngE1mU21Ua7204yd/view?usp=sharing)

## Hardware Issues

Currently Juliagebra works best, without issues on Debian 12 or Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Linux with Xorg GNOME, using NVIDIA GPUs with NVIDIA's proprietary drivers.
Other hardware and software configurations are mostly untested.

### Some known Windows 11 specific issues

- Distant lines can appear fuzzy on AMD GPUs under windows 11.
- Mouse movement feels sluggish, inconsistent, and lumpy.
- Mouse scrolling also feels sluggish, inconsistent, and lumpy.

Commit message:

Changed README by including package connecting instructions for local packages like JuliaGLM!  🍫

README.md, after:

# Juliagebra

Geogebra like 3D interactive plotting libary written in Julia and OpenGL.

## Used Packages

Every package used by Juliagebra can be found in the [Project.toml](Project.toml) file.

For some examples **DifferentialEquations** package is needed, which may downgrade your **DataStructures** package.

Juliagebra depends on a package called [JuliaGLM](https://github.com/Csabix/JuliaGLM), which is currently not available in the official Julia package repository.

Because of this, it is recommended, that you clone [JuliaGLM](https://github.com/Csabix/JuliaGLM) from it's official repository, then by ``` develop ```-ing it, you tell Julia, where this package is.

## Examples

Scripts which showcase the use of the library can be found inside [examples/](examples/).

Camera movement is just like in Blender:
- Look around by holding down the scroll wheel, and moving the mouse.
- Pan the camera by doing the same, but holding down the shift key.
- Scroll to zoom in-and-out.

To run the examples without installing the package globally:
```
julia --project=. examples/example.jl
```

But if you want to install the module globally, while cd-d in the root of this project, run:
```
julia
]
develop .
```

Now the package is available for use in your global Julia module scope.

## Creating dependents

For how a Non-Rendered/Rendered Dependent can be created, a good place to start is [intersections.jl](src/Dependents/intersections.jl) and [point.jl](src/Dependents/point.jl).

Highly suggested steps for creating a Dependent:
1. Create a file for it in the [src/Dependents/](src/Dependents/) folder.
2. Include the created file in [Juliagebra.jl](src/Juliagebra.jl) below the **Dependents** section.
3. Additional helper files should go in the [src/Helpers/](src/Helpers/) folder.
4. Helper files can be included in [Juliagebra.jl](src/Juliagebra.jl) below the **Helpers** section, or dierctly above the dependent's include, if nothing else uses it.
5. Create a **Plan**.
6. Create a **Dependent**.
7. If needed create a **Renderer**.
8. Once done, create a User accessible (exported) constructor function in [constructors.jl](src/constructors.jl).
9. Create usage examples in [examples/](examples/).

## Package commands

For adding or removing packages Juliagebra depends on, run theese commands while you're cd-d into the root of this project, but try to keep the versions of the packages as free as possible in the [Project.toml](Project.toml) file.

### Add Dependent Packages:
```
julia
]
activate .
add PackageName
```

### Add Local Packages:
```
julia
]
activate .
develop path/to/package/relative/to/Juliagebra/root/folder
```

After adding local packages, it is reccomended, to run a ``` resolve ``` and ``` instantiate ``` command in both the global package scope, and in the Juliagebra package scope.

### Remove Dependent Packages:
```
julia
]
activate .
rm PackageName
```

## Tests

Write tests in a seperate file in the [test/](test/) folder, and include them in [runtests.jl](test/runtests.jl).

To run the tests, while you're cd-d in the root of this project, run theese commands:
```
julia
]
activate .
test
```

## Diagrams

[Drawio](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fkfQfxXt0IOKQ_Q8ngE1mU21Ua7204yd/view?usp=sharing)

## Most Stable Hardware

Currently Juliagebra works best, without issues on Debian 12/13 or Ubuntu 24.04 LTS Linux with Xorg GNOME, using NVIDIA GPUs with NVIDIA's proprietary drivers.
